# Project 1: Threads

## Preliminaries

>Fill in your name and email address.

FirstName LastName <email@domain.example>

>If you have any preliminary comments on your submission, notes for the
>TAs, please give them here.



>Please cite any offline or online sources you consulted while
>preparing your submission, other than the Pintos documentation, course
>text, lecture notes, and course staff.


## Debugging

#### QUESTIONS: BIOS 

>A1: What is the first instruction that gets executed?



>A2: At which physical address is this instruction located?




#### QUESTIONS: BOOTLOADER

>A3: How does the bootloader read disk sectors? In particular, what BIOS interrupt is used?



>A4: How does the bootloader decides whether it successfully finds the Pintos kernel?



>A5: What happens when the bootloader could not find the Pintos kernel?



>A6: At what point and how exactly does the bootloader transfer control to the Pintos kernel?



#### QUESTIONS: KERNEL

>A7: At the entry of pintos_init(), what is the value of expression `init_page_dir[pd_no(ptov(0))]` in hexadecimal format?



>A8: When `palloc_get_page()` is called for the first time,

>> A8.1 what does the call stack look like?
>>
>> 

>> A8.2 what is the return value in hexadecimal format?
>>
>> 

>> A8.3 what is the value of expression `init_page_dir[pd_no(ptov(0))]` in hexadecimal format?
>>
>> 



>A9: When palloc_get_page() is called for the third time,

>> A9.1 what does the call stack look like?
>>
>> 

>> A9.2 what is the return value in hexadecimal format?
>>
>> 

>> A9.3 what is the value of expression `init_page_dir[pd_no(ptov(0))]` in hexadecimal format?
>>
>> 



## Kernel Monitor

>B1: Put the screenshot of your kernel monitor running example here. (It should show how your kernel shell respond to `whoami`, `exit`, and `other input`.)

#### 

>B2: Explain how you read and write to the console for the kernel monitor.


## Alarm Clock

#### DATA STRUCTURES

>C1: Copy here the declaration of each new or changed struct or struct member, global or static variable, typedef, or enumeration.  Identify the purpose of each in 25 words or less.



#### ALGORITHMS

>C2: Briefly describe what happens in a call to timer_sleep(),
>including the effects of the timer interrupt handler.



>C3: What steps are taken to minimize the amount of time spent in
>the timer interrupt handler?



#### SYNCHRONIZATION

>C4: How are race conditions avoided when multiple threads call
>timer_sleep() simultaneously?



>C5: How are race conditions avoided when a timer interrupt occurs
>during a call to timer_sleep()?



#### RATIONALE

>C6: Why did you choose this design?  In what ways is it superior to
>another design you considered?



## Priority Scheduling

#### DATA STRUCTURES

>D1: Copy here the declaration of each new or changed struct or struct member, global or static variable, typedef, or enumeration.  Identify the purpose of each in 25 words or less.



>D2: Explain the data structure used to track priority donation.
>Use ASCII art to diagram a nested donation.  (Alternately, submit a
>.png file.)



#### ALGORITHMS

>D3: How do you ensure that the highest priority thread waiting for
>a lock, semaphore, or condition variable wakes up first?



>D4: Describe the sequence of events when a call to lock_acquire()
>causes a priority donation.  How is nested donation handled?



>D5: Describe the sequence of events when lock_release() is called
>on a lock that a higher-priority thread is waiting for.



#### SYNCHRONIZATION

>D6: Describe a potential race in thread_set_priority() and explain
>how your implementation avoids it.  Can you use a lock to avoid
>this race?



#### RATIONALE

>D7: Why did you choose this design?  In what ways is it superior to
>another design you considered?



## Advanced Scheduler

#### DATA STRUCTURES

>E1: Copy here the declaration of each new or changed struct or struct member, global or static variable, typedef, or enumeration.  Identify the purpose of each in 25 words or less.



#### ALGORITHMS

>E2: How is the way you divided the cost of scheduling between code
>inside and outside interrupt context likely to affect performance?



#### RATIONALE

>E3: Briefly critique your design, pointing out advantages and
>disadvantages in your design choices.  If you were to have extra
>time to work on this part of the project, how might you choose to
>refine or improve your design?



>E4: The assignment explains arithmetic for fixed-point math in
>detail, but it leaves it open to you to implement it.  Why did you
>decide to implement it the way you did?  If you created an
>abstraction layer for fixed-point math, that is, an abstract data
>type and/or a set of functions or macros to manipulate fixed-point
>numbers, why did you do so?  If not, why not?
